README.md, before:

[![Download latest](https://img.shields.io/badge/Download-Latest-brightgreen?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/drupol/master-thesis/releases/latest)
[![CC BY License badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-CC--BY--4.0-brightgreen?style=flat-square)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)
[![HL3 License badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-HL3--full-brightgreen?style=flat-square)](https://firstdonoharm.dev/version/3/0/full.html)
[![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/DOI-10.5281%2Fzenodo.12666899-brightgreen?style=flat-square)](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.12666899)

# Reproducibility in Software Engineering (RiSE)

This repository contains the sources of my master's thesis in computer science,
entitled "Reproducibility in Software Engineering", that was completed in June
2024 at the [University Of Mons] under the supervision of Professor [Tom Mens],
director of the [Software Engineering Lab].

Founded in October 2003, the [Software Engineering Lab] carries out research in
the domains of open source software, empirical software engineering, software
ecosystems, software evolution, and software modeling. The lab is directed by
Professor [Tom Mens], and is part of the [Department of Computer Science] of the
Faculty of Sciences of the [University of Mons], Belgium.

## Abstract

The concept of reproducibility has long been a cornerstone in scientific
research, ensuring that results are robust, repeatable, and can be independently
verified. This concept has been extended to computer science, focusing on the
ability to recreate identical software artefacts. However, the importance of
reproducibility in software engineering is often overlooked, leading to
challenges in the validation, security, and reliability of software products.

This master's thesis aims to investigate the current state of reproducibility in
software engineering, exploring both the barriers and potential solutions to
making software more reproducible and raising awareness. It identifies key
factors that impede reproducibility such as inconsistent environments, lack of
standardisation, and incomplete documentation. To tackle these issues, I propose
an empirical comparison of tools facilitating software reproducibility.

To provide a comprehensive assessment of reproducibility in software
engineering, this study adopts a methodology that involves a hands-on evaluation
of four different methods and tools. Through a systematic evaluation of these
tools, this research seeks to determine their effectiveness in establishing and
maintaining identical software environments and builds.

This study contributes to academic knowledge and offers practical insights that
could influence future software development protocols and standards.

## Repository Structure

The repository is structured as follows:

- `src/thesis`: Contains the [Typst] source code
- `nix`: Contains the [Nix] expressions necessary for the build but also for the
  local development environment
- `resources`: Contains some resources (images, source code, ...)

## Licensing

This work is licenced under a dual license: the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0
International ([CC BY 4.0]) and the Hippocratic Licence 3.0 ([HL3]) licences.
You are free to share and adapt the material under the terms of the CC BY 4.0,
provided you give appropriate credit to the original author. You must also use
the material in accordance with the ethical guidelines specified in HL3,
ensuring it is not used to contribute to human rights abuses or other unethical
practices. In case of any conflict between the licences, HL3 will take
precedence.

## Cite

```
@masterthesis{dellaieraMasterThesis2024,
  title  = {Reproducibility in Software Engineering},
  author = {Dellaiera, Pol},
  year   = 2024,
  month  = {June},
  note   = {Available at \url{TODO}},
  school = {University of Mons},
  type   = {Master's thesis},
  doi    = {10.5281/zenodo.12666899}
}
```

## How To Contribute

We welcome contributions! If you'd like to contribute to this repository, please
feel free to send a pull request.

### Setting Up Your Development Environment

To set up a local development environment with all the necessary tools to build
the document, you have two options:

1. **Using Nix:** Load the default shell environment by running: `nix develop`

2. **Using DevContainer:** You can also set up a complete development
   environment using [DevContainer].

The master thesis is written using [Typst], a modern typesetting system. The
primary language of the document is British English.

[DevContainer]: https://containers.dev/
[Nix]: https://nixos.org/
[Typst]: https://typst.app/
[University Of Mons]: https://www.umons.ac.be/
[Tom Mens]: https://staff.umons.ac.be/tom.mens/
[CC BY 4.0]: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
[HL3]: https://firstdonoharm.dev/version/3/0/full.html
[Software Engineering Lab]: https://informatique-umons.be/genlog/
[Department of Computer Science]: https://informatique.umons.ac.be/

Commit message:

chore: use Github as a mirror and use Codeberg as default repo

README.md, after:

[![Download latest](https://img.shields.io/badge/Download-Latest-brightgreen?style=flat-square)](https://github.com/drupol/master-thesis/releases/latest)
[![CC BY License badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-CC--BY--4.0-brightgreen?style=flat-square)](https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/)
[![HL3 License badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/License-HL3--full-brightgreen?style=flat-square)](https://firstdonoharm.dev/version/3/0/full.html)
[![Static Badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/DOI-10.5281%2Fzenodo.12666899-brightgreen?style=flat-square)](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.12666899)

# Reproducibility in Software Engineering (RiSE)

This repository contains the sources of my master's thesis in computer science,
entitled "Reproducibility in Software Engineering", that was completed in June
2024 at the [University Of Mons] under the supervision of Professor [Tom Mens],
director of the [Software Engineering Lab].

Founded in October 2003, the [Software Engineering Lab] carries out research in
the domains of open source software, empirical software engineering, software
ecosystems, software evolution, and software modeling. The lab is directed by
Professor [Tom Mens], and is part of the [Department of Computer Science] of the
Faculty of Sciences of the [University of Mons], Belgium.

## Abstract

The concept of reproducibility has long been a cornerstone in scientific
research, ensuring that results are robust, repeatable, and can be independently
verified. This concept has been extended to computer science, focusing on the
ability to recreate identical software artefacts. However, the importance of
reproducibility in software engineering is often overlooked, leading to
challenges in the validation, security, and reliability of software products.

This master's thesis aims to investigate the current state of reproducibility in
software engineering, exploring both the barriers and potential solutions to
making software more reproducible and raising awareness. It identifies key
factors that impede reproducibility such as inconsistent environments, lack of
standardisation, and incomplete documentation. To tackle these issues, I propose
an empirical comparison of tools facilitating software reproducibility.

To provide a comprehensive assessment of reproducibility in software
engineering, this study adopts a methodology that involves a hands-on evaluation
of four different methods and tools. Through a systematic evaluation of these
tools, this research seeks to determine their effectiveness in establishing and
maintaining identical software environments and builds.

This study contributes to academic knowledge and offers practical insights that
could influence future software development protocols and standards.

## Repository Structure

The repository is structured as follows:

- `src/thesis`: Contains the [Typst] source code
- `nix`: Contains the [Nix] expressions necessary for the build but also for the
  local development environment
- `resources`: Contains some resources (images, source code, ...)

## Licensing

This work is licenced under a dual license: the Creative Commons Attribution 4.0
International ([CC BY 4.0]) and the Hippocratic Licence 3.0 ([HL3]) licences.
You are free to share and adapt the material under the terms of the CC BY 4.0,
provided you give appropriate credit to the original author. You must also use
the material in accordance with the ethical guidelines specified in HL3,
ensuring it is not used to contribute to human rights abuses or other unethical
practices. In case of any conflict between the licences, HL3 will take
precedence.

## Cite

```
@masterthesis{dellaieraMasterThesis2024,
  title  = {Reproducibility in Software Engineering},
  author = {Dellaiera, Pol},
  year   = 2024,
  month  = {June},
  note   = {Available at \url{TODO}},
  school = {University of Mons},
  type   = {Master's thesis},
  doi    = {10.5281/zenodo.12666899}
}
```

## How To Contribute

I welcome and appreciate contributions from the community! Here are the ways
you can contribute:

1. **Codeberg (Preferred)**
   - Visit the main repository on Codeberg: https://codeberg.org/p1ld7a/master-thesis
   - Fork the repository and make your changes.
   - Submit a pull request for review.
   - Ensure your code adheres to our coding guidelines and is well-documented.

2. **GitHub**
   - Visit the mirror repository on GitHub: https://github.com/drupol/master-thesis
   - Fork the repository and make your changes.
   - Submit a pull request for review.
   - Ensure your code adheres to our coding guidelines and is well-documented.

3. **Email**
   - If you prefer, you can also contribute by sending me patches or suggestions
     via email.
   - Please include a detailed description of your changes and any relevant
     attachments.
   - My email address: pol.dellaiera@protonmail.com

### Contribution Guidelines

To ensure a smooth contribution process, please follow these guidelines:

- **Code Quality:** Make sure your changes are clean and readable.
- **Commit Messages:** Write clear and descriptive commit messages.

### Setting Up Your Development Environment

To set up a local development environment with all the necessary tools to build
the document, you have two options:

1. **Using Nix:** Load the default shell environment by running: `nix develop`

2. **Using DevContainer:** You can also set up a complete development
   environment using [DevContainer].

The master thesis is written using [Typst], a modern typesetting system. The
primary language of the document is British English.

[DevContainer]: https://containers.dev/
[Nix]: https://nixos.org/
[Typst]: https://typst.app/
[University Of Mons]: https://www.umons.ac.be/
[Tom Mens]: https://staff.umons.ac.be/tom.mens/
[CC BY 4.0]: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
[HL3]: https://firstdonoharm.dev/version/3/0/full.html
[Software Engineering Lab]: https://informatique-umons.be/genlog/
[Department of Computer Science]: https://informatique.umons.ac.be/
